while out in there I don't have people
it's Bell again without evildoers there
would have been no archipelago in 1973
on this day Alexander Solzhenitsyn
published his book The Gulag Archipelago
incredibly important work incredibly
important work now if you don't know
anything about it
gulag is an acronym means like Mein
Kampf Directorate or something along
those lines it was the Soviet prison
system and it was pretty brutal it was
pretty brutal this book detailed it in
just striking striking vividness
interesting thing about the book is it
was written in sections and when I say
that I don't mean I don't mean volumes
although it was if you actually read it
it's like you're reading three books and
one he wrote it in sections and never
kept all over the book on him it at any
given time because he was worried about
security services catching him so he
wrote it in little pieces and then kind
of pieced it together and it stashed
it's cool stuff the author spent ten
years in a Soviet prison because he
basically wrote some nasty letters about
Stalin during war - when people talk
about this book today and this is the
reason I think it's important when they
talk about it it is presented as a
critique of state communism under the
Soviet Union specifically under Stalin
and it is no doubt it is that but I
think it's more than that I think it's
more than that I'm not even sure that he
meant it to be more than that
but what he wrote was so universal the
critiques and the condom Nations they
apply to anything that line without
evildoers there would mean there would
be no hurt Pardo here's the thing now
that you know what it is you think
you're talking bout the prisoners but
you're not it's not what he's saying
he says ideology that is what gives evil
doing it's long sought justification and
gives the evildoer the necessary
steadfastness and determination that is
the social theory which helps to make
his acts seem good instead of bad in his
own and others eyes so that he won't
hear approaches and curses but will
receive praise and honors ideologies
hunger propaganda he's talking about
confusing legality and morality and this
is something that happens in every state
every government this happens this
occurs in every ideology almost every
ideology there is a collective will to
do things that you would never do on
your own you can justify actions that
you would never justify as an individual
oh but in pursuit of the cause you can
do it this work like I don't know like
calling it a book this walk is it
examines that it uses the Soviet Union
as the example but this is true
everywhere and he points it out in a
couple of places so there's a part of me
that believes that he meant his work to
be universal but wasn't sure would be
accepted that way so he didn't really
you know Bank too hard on it but there
are lines in it immediately following
that section I read he goes on to talk
about how
this is how the Spanish Inquisition was
conducted this is how colonisation was
conducted he understood that these
things existed in all governments he
talked about how it was unwise to say at
least to entrust a few with absolute
power over the many he knew that unjust
a nun has Sarah hierarchies were bad he
knew it in his heart when he was writing
I don't know that he ever came to the
logical conclusion that that takes you
to because I because I enjoy it so much
I haven't actually read too much about
about it I haven't dug into it because I
have found that that ruins no books that
I enjoy but that's what I see when I
read I see somebody who understood that
no government is best
no ideology is best that they can all be
corrupted and that they can all create
evil doers who believe they are doing
good I think it's worth reading
I don't do book recommendations often
but if you've got some time to kill and
understand it's a Russian book so you
know be ready it's worth your time it's
worth your effort because there's a lot
in it that you'll have to research the
history of along the way but it's worth
it and even if you don't go too deep
into the history and you just focus on
his main themes you'll walk away with a
pretty good understanding of not just
how the Soviet Union worked in in its
worst possible light
but how all governments work in their
best possible right we like to pretend
they're different should be noted that
this year we've fallen below but the
number of people incarcerated today in
the United States it's about the same as
we're in the good lucks
now some of the people in the gulags
they were criminals they deserve to be
there most weren't
most weren't as were political prisoners
of some kind a lot we're nonviolent but
his work is one of the few one of the
few works that if I you know if there's
an ash drawer it headed towards the
planet somebody's like hey you need to
give me a list of books to say this
would be on it
and it's not really because of the
historical context in which was written
it's because of the message that's there
if you read the subtext if you watch
this channel you probably enjoy subtext
because there's a lot of it in here and
if you if you didn't get the subtext of
it you probably wouldn't like the
channel to be honest so it's probably
something that most of you would truly
enjoy and I highly recommend it
anyway it's just thought I'll have a
good night